We had a first look at the dimensions API,
we can use it to get the height but it's not responsive right now,
it doesn't adjust, it just allows us to set different layouts which is nice, you see how you can use it
and by the way, this is of course only one way of using it,
you could also add such a check here to just render totally different content as we do it here for
example with the main text but it would be more interesting if we could adjust our styles on the fly,
so if we can react to changes in the UI, and turns out we can do that. For that, I will add a constructor
here
to the auth screen component, the constructor receives the props and we first of all have to call super props,
you always have to do that.
Then I'll add dimensions and add an event listener
and I'll listen to the Change event, now
then I'll execute some arrow function here and in that arrow function, I'll receive an object with new dimensions.
Let's simply log this to the console for now, with that let's go back and let's reload our app,
let me clear the log here on the right and let's view what happens if I rotate the screen,
you see we get this object and that's coming from this listener
and there, we get a window and screen object and in there, we get all these information which we before
also checked
but now this will be fired whenever the orientation or in general, the dimensions change.
So here you see now it's back to portrait mode and therefore all the dimensions have basically switched,
so for height now is width
and the other way around.
Now that allows us to do something and to update our code upon changes, for that I'll add state because
I need to update state to be able to change something in my UI,
that's how react works right,
we have to change state or props to re-render to screen,
we want to re-render something
if that changes. So therefore here in state, we can do multiple things,
we could manage the values we want to assign as styles,
let's start with that approach. Instead of using our stylesheet down there for password container and
password wrapper,
we could populate these values in inline styles, so where we use password container, here on the view
wrapping our views for the password fields, here I'll add an object to serve some inline styles and no
longer use the stylesheet
and then I'll add the same to properties we use here, flex direction and justify content and in this
object, I'll set flex direction to this state,
let's say there we have some styles property, pw container direction, that could be a property where
we manage that.
Let me re-structure this and bring this into a new line and then I'm going to add a second property,
the other property we have down there, justify content,
we didn't even change this depending on the ratio or on the dimensions but we can do it here.
So justify content can be this state styles
pw container justify content.
Now we also need to change the style on this view which wraps the individual input so there,
I'm also going to add an inline style and if we scroll down to our stylesheet, we see that there we
set the width dynamically to 100 or 55%,
so I'm going to set the width here to this state styles pw
wrapper width, maybe that, of course I'm going to use the same approach on the second view here instead of using
the style stylesheet. With that,
all we have to do is we have to initialize these things in our state,
so if we have a look, we try to access this state and then there, we should have a styles property which
holds another object where we have pw container direction, justify content and wrapper width.
So let's add that, let's first of all add a styles property in here and then let's add pw container
direction and let's maybe set it to a default of column which would be the default,
let's then add pw container justify content,
let's set this to a default of flex start
and I'm renaming styles to resp styles for responsive styles so that I get the right coloring from
my ID which doesn't like the word styles, so resp styles is used here,
therefore I replace it down there in my jsx code,
this state resp styles should be accessed here on the view which wraps our wrapper views and then
in the views which directly wrap the inputs, we also access this state resp styles pw wrapper width
and on the second input as well.
So with that back to it, there I added pw container justify content and direction,
let's now also add pw wrapper width and let's set this to a default of 100%.
So these are defaults we start with,
now whenever a change occurs, what we can do is we can simply call this set state and now set our resp
styles to a new object where I copy the default styles but now I change column to row,
change flex start to space between
and this wrapper width to 45%.
And with this, this should update our change whenever our dimensions change,
so whenever we for example rotate the device and since we access our state properties here in inline styles, this
should automatically be reflected because the state changes, hence our UI is re-rendered
and it takes the new values.
Now one thing we have to do however is right now we always change our styles to that state when we detect
a change in the dimensions
but that's of course wrong,
we only want to do that if it's appropriate.
So we can use our check from before where we check dimensions, height if it's greater than 500 because
if it's greater than 500 here, then we actually want to leave this at column or we set it to column
if we were at row because we rotated it before and the same for justify content,
if we are greater than 500, so if we have more height than 500 then I want to set this to flex start,
it should only be space between if we have less than 500 height available and the same for the wrapper width.
If we have more than 500 height, then this should be 100%
because we can afford to place these elements on top of each other, only if we have less than that,
we take 45.
So with that, that's our finished code, I just automatically restructured this to make it a bit easier
to read,
these are our three properties and their respective styles.
Let's now save this file and reload our apps,
so both look good here
if we are in the normal mode,
so if we are in portrait mode. If we rotate the device though, you see now it adjusts, the heading disappears
and we order our elements differently.
So that's pretty cool, with that
we got a truly responsive design but we can do better or we can use an alternative which tends to be
better. Let's have a look at that alternative in the next lecture.